**Problem Statement:**
 _What characteristics of a post on Reddit are most predictive of the overall interaction on a thread (as measured by number of comments)?_

**Executive Summary**
Reddit is a massively popular platform for sharing ideas, information, and creating discussion among both peers and strangers alike. As of 2018, Reddit had 330 million users, and with that high number of users, there is an abundance of posting going on. Not all posts receive the recognition and engagement that they hope to find, however. Understanding of which post features garner the highest comment engagement could be leveraged in many ways. Specifically, my aim is to promote more conversation about climate change, since I believe it to be crucial for making the mindset and behavior shifts necessary to save our planet from existential disaster. 

Using both PMAW (a Pushshift API) and PRAW (a Reddit API), just over 10,000 submissions to the Reddit subreddit 'climatechange' were collected. One thing I kept in mind throughout the process is that by collecting data in 2 different manners, it might be possible to have misalignments in the resulting information. I did my best to be conscious of this fact and check that I was merging correct data. This resulting data was then cleaned of null values and outliers, then additional columns were created based on title length, body text length, and whether or not the post was a link to an external website. This curated selection of features was then explored using various visualization to find relationships. Finally, these features were used to create classification models - using the title text only, using numeric features only, and combining both the title and numeric features together. The class we were predicting was that a post either DID have more comments than the median of 5 comments, or had fewer comments than the mean. 

**Model Comparison**
For the title field, the raw text was prepared for the model by first normalizing it - removing non alpha-numeric characters and lowercasing everything. It was then tokenized  and stemmed, and saved as a new column to be ready for modeling. Both CountVectorizer and TfidfVectorizer were used to transform the string of prepared title text into the format necessary for the estimator. I found that CountVectorizor generally resulted in higher accuracy scores when used with DecisionTree, RandomForest, and AdaBoost. The highest accuracy score I achieved using only title text data was 59%, which was via a Pipeline consisting of CountVectorizer, TfidfTransformer, and either Naive-Bayes or Logisitic Regression.
For my non-text features, I selected title length, body length, score, and the binary 'external link' column I created. The only transformation I used for this was StandardScaler. Using LogisticRegression, RandomForest, and AdaBoost, the highest accuracy score I Was able to achieve was 63% (both LogisticRegression and AdaBoost).
Finally, I combined both the prepared text column and numeric columns using ColumnTransformer to create a model. For the title text column, I used CountVectorizer and TfidfTransformer to prepare the text data for proper modeling. I only StandardScaled the numeric data. Then I used LogisticRegression to make the predictions, and was able to achieve an accuracy score of 66.1%, which is a significant improvement from using only text or numeric features alone.

**Conclusions and Recommendations**

I found that to create a post in the climatechange subreddit that receives more than 5 comments, you must consider the title of the post - both in topic and length, the body text, and whether you are posting just an external link or not. I was able to more accurately predict when a post would NOT get more than 5 comments. Based on the coefficients of the numeric only modeling, it appears that score, title length, body length are positively correlated with likelihood of receiving more than 5 comments, and if it's an external link, that is negatively correlated with likelihood of receiving more than 5 comments.
If I had more time, there are definitely additional features that I think could be predictive of post engagement. First, I would want to identify if the title of the post was a question or not - perhaps by leaving the '?' in the title instead of removing all non-alpha numeric characters. Also, I would look at how day of the week and time of year of posting impacted the comment activity. My third thought is that I am curious if the engagement of the original poster in the comment section is impactful on total number of comments. My hypothesis is that it is, because increased engagement likely encourages robust discussion. 


**Outside resources**
https://foundationinc.co/lab/reddit-statistics/